---
date: "2020-05-11T00:00:00+00:00"
title: "May 11, 2020 Open Force Field Initiative Advisory Board Meeting"
tags: ["Open Force Field Initiative", "Initiative Advisory Board", "minutes"]
categories: ["Initiative Advisory Board Meeting Minutes"]
draft: false
description: "Meeting minutes"
weight: 10
author: "Karmen Condic-Jurkic"
---


The first meeting of the [OpenFF Initiative Advisory Board](https://openforcefield.org/about/organization/#open-force-field-initiative) took place on May 11, 2020. The meeting notes are summarized below:

#### Data collection and benchmarking

* As we push into biopolymer FFs, what data should we be using to fit force fields?
  * We are in the process of porting AMBER ff14sb into SMIRNOFF format.
  * We have a plan for making an “AMBER-like” protein force field using the current small molecule bond/angle/vdw, with an AMBER protein charge model, then fitting torsions.
* What data should we use to evaluate the quality of proteins/nucleic acids? Data for other molecules (lipids/carbohydrates - though those will likely be tackled next year)?
  * High-quality protein-ligand binding affinity datasets with rigid ligands
  * Conformational decoys? (What experimental datasets inform this?)
    * Similar sequences but different folds? (e.g. “Paracelsus Challenge”)
  * Peptide data: NMR data on cyclic peptides
    * Scott Lokey: logD and NMR data for cyclic peptides
  * Check with Alan Mark on automated protein benchmark set

#### What to consider with respect to water models?

* TIP3P is likely to cause problems. OPC or OPC3 might be good candidates. PC3/TIP4P-Ew performed well, according to Onufriev’s study.
* Import data used in fitting TIP3P-FB; ultimately co-optimize water model
* Important properties:
  * Hydration free energies insensitive to water model (but entropy/enthalpy decomposition is); polarization issues
  * Diffusion coefficient would likely be more important, water model dependent
  * Enthalpy of vaporization: Difficult property to reproduce; unclear where discrepancy arises from (e.g. quantum dynamical effect)
  * Mixing properties: Enthalpies of mixing; partial molar volumes
  * Partition coefficients: OCHEM (large database of octanol-water partition coefficients and other properties) ~ 20K [follow up with Sereina Riniker]; however, significant cancellation.  Also OCHEM has a lot of license terms (OK for non-commercial, but otherwise a lot of restrictions: https://ochem.eu/home/show.do)
  * Solvation free energies in solvents other than water
  * Don’t neglect charged molecules (relative values, not absolute)

#### Interactions with the biomolecular force field community

* How can we best collaborate with the biopolymer FF development communities and provide/share resources (software, data, infrastructure)?
  * Making it easy for novice Python programmers to extend the OFF toolkit --  at the moment, understanding how various bits and pieces of OpenFF work together is a steep learning curve, although modifying code seems to be quite straightforward.
  * Support for new parameter types / functional forms
* How best can we share curated standard train/test datasets? We want to make it programmatically accessible, but what other formats are good too?
  * Flexibility -- everyone has their own favourite way of dealing with data
  * Data accessible with an API to grab data in batches
  * Offer bulk download
  * Identifiers within dataset are critical (names, SMILES, CAS, InChI, etc.)
* How can we best communicate with biopolymer FF development communities?
  * Try attending community user group meetings
  * Paris CHARMM / Tinker-HP/AMOEBA meeting is a great model
* Support for different functional forms?
  * e.g. site-specific multipoles

#### What functional forms and other new FF components should we aim to support to enable future accurate FF development?

* Is there a way to work with MD package developers to get support for these into their packages?
  * Show package developers persuasive data that the force field is valuable to motivate implementation of new functional forms (especially protein-ligand binding energies) -- demonstrate that it works
* What about a library that provides advanced potentials until they can be implemented internally, like OpenKIM?
  * This could make it easy for developers to try new forces with minimal effort
* How can we best support Quantum-trained ML potentials? Other ML potentials?
  * TensorFlow support (for ANI) already integrated into gromos

#### How can we best streamline the deployment of our force fields into simulation packages?

* Should we focus on existing converters (e.g. ParmEd/InterMl), object models (an OFF/MolSSI common system object model?), libraries to read common object model serialization that other codes can plug into?
  * Low-level converters for parameterized systems (like ParmEd) are likely to be the most successful
  * New system construction tools (especially if broadly deployed, e.g. via CHARMM-GUI) could have impactful
  * CanDo - Chris Schafmeister - “this is what people are going to use”
* Currently, we’re aiming to build a common biopolymer + small molecule Topology object model that will ideally replace/augment OpenMM or other force field representations, Topology objects.
* Probably out of scope of what OpenFF is developing are general trajectory representations, but we plan to work with other developers on these to help provide input/assistance.
* Ditto with any replacements for Molecule SDF/mol2/PDB files: out of scope for our effort, but we would like to be involved in larger efforts.
