<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="yes"?>
<rss version="2.0" xmlns:atom="http://www.w3.org/2005/Atom">
  <channel>
    <title>Governing Board Meeting Minutes on OpenFF</title>
    <link>https://openforcefield.org/categories/governing-board-meeting-minutes/</link>
    <description>Recent content in Governing Board Meeting Minutes on OpenFF</description>
    <generator>Hugo -- gohugo.io</generator>
    <language>en-us</language>
    <lastBuildDate>Mon, 29 Oct 2018 00:00:00 +0000</lastBuildDate><atom:link href="https://openforcefield.org/categories/governing-board-meeting-minutes/index.xml" rel="self" type="application/rss+xml" />
    <item>
      <title>October 29, 2018 Joint Governing/Advisory Board Meeting</title>
      <link>https://openforcefield.org/minutes/cab/2018-10-29-minutes/</link>
      <pubDate>Mon, 29 Oct 2018 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate>
      
      <guid>https://openforcefield.org/minutes/cab/2018-10-29-minutes/</guid>
      <description>Minutes Attending: All PIs, both governing board members, and most advisory board members, via Zoom.
Short-term roadmap/minimum viable product: In general folks are supportive of current effort plans. However, there was consensus we need a tool for bespoke parameterization of molecules, especially internal molecules which might not be able to be disclosed to the larger effort, as part of our minimum viable product.
Funding/financials: Currently we have eight partners on board (with openforcefield.</description>
    </item>
    
    <item>
      <title>October 11, 2018 Governing Board Meeting</title>
      <link>https://openforcefield.org/minutes/cab/2018-10-11-minutes/</link>
      <pubDate>Thu, 11 Oct 2018 00:00:00 +0000</pubDate>
      
      <guid>https://openforcefield.org/minutes/cab/2018-10-11-minutes/</guid>
      <description>Agenda: October meeting draft agenda and start time January meeting location Maat hiring Slack Funding processing update/onboarding update Involvement with science meetings (subprojects) and project planning Discuss blog posts? Yes, just get sub-groups to do brief updates after meetings; better for keeping people up to date. Minutes: Attending: All PIs except Shirts, and both industry members, Thomas Fox and Katharina Meier
Shared the detailed budget outline Google Doc and went over the personnel who would be involved and their distribution across different locations, fellowship amounts, etc.</description>
    </item>
    
  </channel>
</rss>
