---
date: "2018-10-11T00:00:00+00:00"
title: "October 11, 2018 Governing Board Meeting"
tags: ["Open Force Field Consortium", "Governing Board Meeting", "minutes"]
categories: ["Governing Board Meeting Minutes"]
draft: false
description: "Meeting minutes"
weight: 10
author: "Lee-Ping Wang"
---

#### Agenda:
- October meeting draft agenda and start time
- January meeting location
- Maat hiring
- Slack
- Funding processing update/onboarding update
- Involvement with science meetings (subprojects) and project planning
- Discuss blog posts? Yes, just get sub-groups to do brief updates after meetings; better for keeping people up to date.

#### Minutes:
Attending: All PIs except Shirts, and both industry members, Thomas Fox and Katharina Meier

Shared the detailed budget outline Google Doc and went over the personnel who would be involved and their distribution across different locations, fellowship amounts, etc. Approved were:

- Jeff Wagner, software scientist/postdoc at UCI, who already started but initiative funds will begin ASAP.
- MolSSI software scientist support (Daniel Smith) at 25% of his position
- Jessica Maat, UCI, graduate student, beginning ASAP
- Owen Madin, CU, graduate student, beginning ASAP
- Hyesu Jang, UCD, graduate student, beginning ASAP
- 0.5 years support each beginning in 2019 for MSKCC students Andrea Rizzi and Chaya Stern
- Misc. personnel costs of up to (for each supported person) $2,000 per year computer and $3,000 per year for travel as needed.
- VT administrative cost

(Following the meeting, Thomas Fox also caught a mistake in how the total amount committed was computed and fixed it.)

We discussed meetings of project sub-groups and the industry partners would like to be informed of these and of agenda items so they can decide to join if they like

We discussed the agenda for the October virtual meeting and Mike Gilson made various edits based on this input

Sub-group blog posts: Sub-groups will do regular blog posts before or after each meeting (as works best for the team) allowing discussion via Slack. Up to initiative to decide whether before or after works best.
