---
date: "2019-02-20T00:00:00+00:00"
title: "February 20, 2019 Advisory Board Meeting"
tags: ["Open Force Field Consortium", "Advisory Board", "minutes"]
categories: ["Advisory Board Meeting Minutes"]
draft: false
description: "Meeting minutes"
weight: 10
author: "Arjun Narayanan and David Mobley"
---

The [Open Force Field Consortium Advisory Board](https://openforcefield.org/about/organization/#open-force-field-consortium) met on 20 February, 2019.
The minutes are summarized as follows:

* Next release of toolkit currently being tested and finished
* Workflow documentation
  * Next item on to-do list
  * Call for additional desired workflows to be posted in #documentation channel
* Industry compound additions to parameterization sets
  * Starting small – current focus is finding parameters in need of optimization by looking for discrepancies between current forcefields when minimizing structures
    * Industry partners should identify particularly high priority chemical space for initial parameterization
    * Compounds/fragments to be sent via Slack or GitHub
  * BI has SureChembl dump and scripts that may be able to be shared.  We will follow up asynchronously.
  *	NN potential parameterization not in scope for SMIRNOFF at this stage, but considering using ANI-1 or similar for bespoke torsion fitting tool in addition to QM calculations.
  * Industry partners to provide SMILES of fragments and/or public molecules.  No PDFs please.
* Letter of support for NIH grant proposal needed by March 1st at latest
* Call for all industry partners that are able to be listed on website as such (openforcefield.org/consortium) to contact David Mobley if not already listed.  
* Hiring update
  * Candidates being interviewed for development of bespoke torsion fitting tool
  * Candidates sought for postdoc position at Janssen for in-kind contribution – contact DM if you know of a good candidate.
  * Project manager hired at 50% ( remainder 50% in JC’s lab ) to oversee and coordinate OpenFF efforts.
* Odds and Ends:
  * Investigating potential for porting in protein forcefields in SMIRNOFF format for use with toolkit.  
  * Reminder of F2F meeting Aug 30-31st in San Diego following fall ACS
  * Nearly approved governance changes regarding discretionary spending as discussed in last advisory board meeting.  Once approved, revised governance board documents to be distributed.
