---
date: "2021-02-17T00:00:00+00:00"
title: "Feb 17, 2021 Advisory Board Meeting"
tags: ["Open Force Field Consortium", "Advisory Board", "minutes"]
categories: ["Advisory Board Meeting Minutes"]
draft: false
description: "Meeting minutes"
weight: 10
author: "Diego Nolasco"
---

The [Open Force Field Consortium Advisory Board](https://openforcefield.org/about/organization/#open-force-field-consortium) met on February 17, 2021.
The minutes are summarized as follows:

#### Updates on Sage release/WBO interpolation

* S. Boothroyd presented updates on [new torsion settings oriented towards Wiberg Bond Orders (WBO)](https://github.com/openforcefield/qca-dataset-submission/blob/master/submissions/2021-01-25-OpenFF-Conjugated-Series/dataset.pdf).

#### Industry-led benchmarking study

* J. Wagner announced the opening of the burn-in period, foreseeing the possibility of moving forward to production runs. As some partners have already finished with production runs, the team is considering what to do about disproportionate dataset size.

#### Toolkit 0.9.1 release

* J. Wagner announced the Toolkit 0.9.1 release. The major feature of 0.9.0 line is the new namespace: from openforcefield import X to openff.toolkit import X. The 0.9.1 release will be feature-equivalent to simultaneous 0.8.4 release. This will be the last release for new features in the old namespace.

#### Absolute Free Energy Benchmarking

* K. Meier announced the willingness to run absolute free energy calculations in GROMACS using D. Hahn's Protein-Ligand benchmark settings. This would be a really important and useful study. Using datasets from relative binding Free Energy calculations is a good idea for isolating the differences between Force Fields.

#### The OpenFE Consortium

* D. Mobley announced that the team is working with Bristol Myers Squibb and Abbvie on getting things started with OpenFE. Actions are being taken with the goal of establishing a nonprofit organization to help facilitate growing to include new initiatives and projects. This nonprofit would replace Virginia Tech and let us expand as much as we see fit.

