---
date: "2022-04-20T00:00:00+00:00"
title: "Apr 20, 2022 Advisory Board Meeting"
tags: ["Open Force Field Consortium", "Advisory Board", "minutes"]
categories: ["Advisory Board Meeting Minutes"]
draft: false
description: "Meeting minutes"
weight: 10
author: "Diego Nolasco"
---

The [Open Force Field Consortium Advisory Board](https://openforcefield.org/about/organization/#open-force-field-consortium) met on April 20, 2022.
The minutes are summarized as follows:

#### OpenFF Toolkit releases 0.10.4 and 0.10.5

* J. Wagner announced that release 0.10.4 ensures that AM1BCC ELF10 is used for partial charge calculations if OpenEye is available.

* J. Wagner annouced that release 0.10.5 contains a major refactor of virtual sites by Simon Boothroyd. This refactor simplifies the behavior of virtual sites and fixes numerous bugs.

#### Coordinating Toolkit Biopolymer Functionality with OpenFE

* OpenFF and OpenFE are building a synergistic relationship with respect to Biopolymer Functionality. OpenFE developers are acting as users+developers making targeted improvements to our code to meet your needs.

#### Virtual Sites into Rosemary

* D. Nolasco announced that after a good number of technical analyses, the lead team states that it is not possible to link the Virtual Sites implementation to the Rosemary release. Anyway, even though this is not a higher priority item, the OpenFF team will continue to pursue its implementation, as well as all the necessary tests for its insertion as a Rosemary feature.

#### 2022 OpenFF Annual Meeting

* D. Nolasco announced that we will not have an in-person meeting because of the pandemic. However, a virtual event will be organized and news will be announced soon.

